SCALE CONVENTIONS
This game was written to be played with 32mm scale models in
mind, which are mounted on round bases. These bases come in
various sizes, and we recommend that you always mount
miniatures on the bases they come with.
Here are some rough guidelines for model and base sizes:
• Infantry: 32mm tall on 20mm/32mm round bases
• Large Infantry: 50mm tall on 40mm/50mm round bases
• Bikes: 40mm tall on 60mm oval bases
• Monsters: 70mm tall on 60mm round bases
• Large Walkers: 100mm tall on 120mm oval bases
• Vehicles: Various sizes and not mounted on a base
Note that the base size that you use doesn’t matter, as long as you
keep base sizes consistent across all models.

LINE OF SIGHT
When playing the game, line of sight is used to determine if a model
can see another model for any purpose. Simply get down to the eye
level of the miniature, and check if it can see the target. If the target
is visible, then it has line of sight.
Models can always see in all directions, regardless of where the
miniature is actually facing, always have line of sight to themselves,
and may always target themselves (unless stated otherwise).
Models can’t see through solid obstacles, including the perimeter
of other units (friendly or enemy), but they can always see through
friendly models from their own unit.
Note that players may agree to ignore unusual features (like
decorative banners or flame effects) for line of sight.

PREPARING THE BATTLEFIELD
You are going to need a flat 6’x4’ area to play on, which is usually
referred to as “the battlefield” or “the table”. Note that the game
can be also played on smaller areas, as long as armies deploy at
least 24" apart.
Whilst we recommend playing on a table, you can of course play on
the floor, on a bed, or wherever else you have space.
Once you have found a space to play, you are going to have to
place at least 15 pieces of terrain on it, though we recommend
using 20 or more to keep things interesting. Whilst it’s always nice
to play with great looking pieces of terrain, you can simply use
household items such as books or cups as terrain.
There are no specific rules on how you should place terrain, but we
have provided some general guidelines in the terrain section of this
book to help you get started.
PLACING OBJECTIVES
After the table has been prepared, you and your opponent must set
up D3+2 objective markers on the battlefield.
The players roll-off and the winner picks who places the first
objective marker. Then the players alternate in placing one marker
each outside of the deployment zones, and over 9” away from
other markers (note that markers can’t be placed in unreachable
positions, like impassable terrain or spots too tight to get to).

DEPLOYING ARMIES
Once the mission has been set up, the players roll-off and the
winner must start deploying their army first.
The winning player first chooses one long table edge to deploy on
and then places one unit fully within 12” of their table edge.
Once they are done, then the opposing player places one unit fully
within 12” of the opposite table edge.
Then the players continue alternating in placing one unit each,
until all units have been deployed.

GENERAL MOVEMENT
Models may move and turn in any direction regardless of their
facing, as long as no part of their bases move further than the total
movement distance. Models may never be within 1” of models from
other units, unless they are taking a Charge action, and may never
move through other models or units (friendly or enemy), even if
they are taking a Charge action.
Note that models may also never move outside of the battlefield
(no part of them, at any point), or be placed in physically
impossible locations.

UNIT COHERENCY
All models in a unit must always stay within 1” of at least one other
model, and must stay within 9” of all other models (or as close as
possible), forming an uninterrupted chain of models in 1”
coherency with each other.
If a model is not in coherency with its unit at the beginning of its
activation, then you must take an action so that the model gets
back into coherency.

PICKING TARGETS
When shooting, a unit must pick one valid target and all models in
the unit may shoot at it.
If at least one model in the unit has line of sight to an enemy model,
and has a weapon that is within range of that model, then that
enemy is a valid target.
WHO CAN SHOOT
All models in a unit with line of sight to the target, and that have a
weapon that is within range of it, may fire at it. Note that models
may always ignore friendly models from their own unit when
determining line of sight.


TERRAIN

TERRAIN RULES
When setting up terrain, players must agree on what terrain type
rules each piece of terrain follows. This will make sure that you do
not have any arguments during your game, and that things can
proceed smoothly.
Each piece of terrain may count as having multiple terrain types,
and you may also add other conditions to further customize your
terrain rules.
Example: A piece of Forest terrain could count both as Cover as well
as Difficult Terrain. Additionally, you could allow units to shoot into
and out of it freely, but not through it.

OPEN TERRAIN
Examples: Grass Fields, Dirt Roads, Streets, etc.
Any surface that is not specifically defined as a type of terrain (like
forests, buildings, rivers, etc.) counts as open terrain.
Open terrain does not have any special rules, and any rules that
affect terrain do not apply to open terrain.

IMPASSABLE TERRAIN
Examples: Mountains, Canyons, Deep Water, etc.
Any surface that would stop models from moving through it, as well
as gaps over 1” wide, count as impassable terrain.
Units may not move through impassable terrain, unless they have
any rules that allow them to ignore it. Note that units may move
across gaps up to 1” wide as if they were flat ground, but may not
end their move partially overhanging gaps or terrain.

BLOCKING TERRAIN
Examples: Walls, Buildings, Rocks, etc.
Any piece of terrain that models can’t see or shoot through counts
as blocking terrain.
Units may not draw line of sight through blocking terrain, unless
they have any rules that allow them to ignore it.

COVER TERRAIN
Examples: Forests, Ruins, Sandbags, etc.
Terrain features that models can hide in or behind, or that could
stop projectiles, count as cover terrain.
If the majority of models in a unit are fully inside a piece of cover
terrain or behind a sight blocker (for multi-model units), or that are
mostly inside cover terrain or behind sight blockers (for singlemodel units), they get +1 to Defense rolls when blocking hits from
shooting attacks.
Note that since models can’t see through the perimeter of other
units (friendly or enemy), they are sight blockers that can provide
other units with cover.

DIFFICULT TERRAIN
Examples: Woods, Mud, Rivers, etc.
Terrain features that hinder a model’s movement, or force them to
slow down, count as difficult terrain.
If any model in a unit moves in or through difficult terrain at any
point of its move, then all models in the unit may not move more
than 6” for that movement.

DANGEROUS TERRAIN
Examples: Quicksand, Razor Wire, Mine Fields, etc.
Terrain features that could harm models, or outright kill them,
count as dangerous terrain.
If a model moves in or through dangerous terrain, or is activated in
it, then it must take a dangerous terrain test.
To take a dangerous terrain test, roll one die (or as many dice as
the model’s Tough value), and if the result is 1, then the unit takes
one automatic wound.

ELEVATED TERRAIN
Examples: Hills, Rooftops, Cliffs, etc.
Terrain features that are over 3” tall count as elevated terrain, and
are impassable, but any terrain piece that is up to 3” tall may be
climbed as part of a unit’s move (units may not end their move
mid-climb). If not all models in a unit can fit on elevation, then a
coherency of 3” is allowed to models at different elevation.
Note that short terrain up to 1” tall may be ignored for the
purposes of movement (instead of having to climb up 1” and down
1” to cross it).

TERRAIN SETUP GUIDELINES
Whilst there are no specific rules as to how terrain should be
placed, here are some guidelines on how to handle terrain to have
a balanced match.
Here are all the things you should consider:
• Size of your terrain
• Rules for each terrain
• Number of pieces
• How to place it

TERRAIN OVERVIEW
Whilst there is no limit to the size of terrain that you can use for
your games, we have a few recommendations for you:
• Small pieces of scatter terrain, like barrels, boxes,
barricades, etc. should be somewhere between 1”x1” and
3”x3” in size.
• Large terrain features, like buildings, forests, lakes, etc.
should be somewhere between 4”x4” and 8”x8” in size,
but can be as large as 12”x12”.
For each terrain feature you’ll also have to define some basic rules
for how it works in the game. Most terrain features will probably
have a single type, but you can combine multiple types together,
and even add extra conditions to them.

Here are some guidelines for common terrain types:
• Barricades - Cover
• Buildings - Impassable + Blocking
• Fields - Difficult + Cover
• Forests - Difficult + Cover + Units can see into and out of forests, but not through them
• Hills - Cover + Difficult when moving up + Units on top may ignore one unit/terrain for line of sight
• Lakes - Difficult (if shallow) or Impassable (if deep)
• Lava - Dangerous
• Mountains - Impassable + Blocking
• Rivers - Dangerous when using rush/charge
• Rubble - Difficult
• Ruins - Cover + Dangerous when using rush/charge
• Swamps - Difficult

Note that whilst all of the terrain we mentioned so far is what you’ll
need for gameplay purposes, it’s also always good to have
elements of decorative terrain that have no effect on the game, but
that help make your table look better.
These could be elements such as patches of grass, shallow water
puddles, scattered gravel, chain-link fences, street signs, and other
things that make sense for your table.

TERRAIN PLACEMENT
When setting up terrain, you should use at least 15-20 pieces of
terrain, although using more can be more interesting.
A simple way to make sure that you’re using enough terrain is to
take as many pieces of terrain as you need to fully cover at least
25% of the table, and then spread them out.
It’s also good to keep a balance of different terrain types, so that
units with different weapons and special rules can use them
effectively in various situations.

Here are some basic terrain type recommendations:
• At least 50% should block line of sight
• At least 33% should provide cover
• At least 33% should be difficult terrain
• Each player should pick 1 piece to be dangerous

Example: If you’re playing with 12 pieces of terrain, at least 6 should
block line of sight, 4 should provide cover, 4 should be difficult
terrain, and 2 should be dangerous terrain.
Once you have chosen which terrain pieces you are going to use,
you can either have one player set up all of the terrain, or have both
players set up terrain together.

To make sure neither player has an advantage, you can roll-off, and
then then alternate in placing one terrain piece each, starting with
the player that won the roll-off.

There are no specific rules on how you should place terrain, so we
recommend trying to set up the table in such a way that it will
provide a balanced playing field for everyone involved.

Ideally you want to place enough blocking terrain that you can’t
draw clear line of sight from edge to edge across the table, as well
as make sure that there are no gaps bigger than 12” between
different terrain pieces. If you are playing with large units, we also
recommend making sure that there are gaps of at least 6” between
terrain, so they can fit through.


ADVANCED TERRAIN - TERRAIN PLACEMENT
TERRAIN PLACEMENT STYLES
When preparing the game, you can either pick one of the
placement styles below, or select it randomly.
To select a random placement style, roll one die:
1. Random
2. Alternating (Free)
3. Alternating (Restricted)
4. Full Table
5. Two Halves
6. Six Squares
Once you have decided what placement style to use, pick 15+
pieces of terrain that you want to play with, and then follow the
instructions of the selected placement style.
1. RANDOM
Divide the table into six 2’x2’ sections.
For each piece of terrain, roll one die to place it at the center of one
random section, and then move it 2D6” toward the center of
another randomly selected section, stopping to be at least 6” away
from other pieces of terrain.
If it’s impossible to place the terrain piece, simply remove it.
2. ALTERNATING (FREE)
Players roll-off, and then alternate in placing one terrain piece
each, starting with the player that won.
Terrain pieces must be placed at least 6” away from each other,
and if it’s impossible to place them they are removed.
3. ALTERNATING (RESTRICTED)
Roll one die to select a random restriction, and then follow the
same rules as the “Alternating (Free)” placement style:
1. No pieces of terrain may be placed within 12” of the
center of the table.
2. No pieces of terrain may be placed within 12” of the edge
of the table.
3. Place the first piece of terrain at the center of the table.
The rest must be placed more than 12” away from that
piece of terrain.
4. Place the first piece at the center of the table, and the rest
must be placed within 9” of another piece of terrain that
was already placed.
5. Place the first 4 pieces each within 12” of a different table
corner. The rest can be placed anywhere.
6. Place the first 4 pieces each in a different table quarter.
The rest can be placed anywhere.
4. FULL TABLE
Players roll-off, and the winner places all pieces of terrain on the
table, at least 6” away from each other and the table edge.
Then the player that lost the roll-off gets to pick which side they
wants to deploy on.
5. TWO HALVES
Players roll-off, and the winner may draw a straight line from one
corner of the battlefield to the opposite, and pick which table half
they place terrain on.
Then the players alternate in placing one piece of terrain each on
their own table half, at least 6” away from other pieces of terrain
and the table edge.
6. SIX SQUARES
Divide the table into six 2’x2’ sections.
Players roll-off, and then alternate in placing one terrain piece each
in a random section, starting with the player that won.
Terrain pieces must be placed at least 6” away from each other,
and if it’s impossible to place them they are removed.


ADVANCED TERRAIN - TERRAIN GENERATOR
TERRAIN GENERATOR
If you’re looking for more variety in your table setups, you can use
one of the following terrain generators, to get themed terrain that
fits a thematic battlefield.
There are 4 planet types that you can pick from:
• Generic Planets
• Hospitable Planets
• Wasteland Planets
• Death Planets
Whilst there is no limit to the size of terrain that you can use for
your games, we have a few recommendations for you:
• Small pieces of scatter terrain, like barrels, boxes,
barricades, etc. should be somewhere between 1”x1” and
3”x3” in size.
• Large terrain features, like buildings, forests, lakes, etc.
should be somewhere between 4”x4” and 8”x8” in size,
but can be as large as 12”x12”.
Note that all of the terrain generated in this section can be used in
combination with different terrain placement styles for a more
varied table setup.
GENERIC PLANETS
The Generic Planet setup allows you to generate terrain without
having to worry about using thematic pieces.
To generate balanced terrain, follow these steps:
• First, take 9 pieces of terrain:
o 2 Barricades
o 2 Large Forests / Large Fields
o 5 Large Sight Blockers
• Then, take 4D3 more pieces of terrain, determining their
type by rolling 2D6 for each:
o 2-3 = Large Hill
o 4 = Large Ruins
o 5 = Large Field
o 6-8 = Barricade
o 9 = Large Forest
o 10 = Large Sight Blocker
o 11-12 = Large Lake
After terrain has been placed, roll-off to see who goes first, and
then players alternate in picking D3 pieces of terrain each, which
count as Dangerous Terrain.

HOSPITABLE PLANETS
Many planets are pleasant and liveable, sustaining wildlife and
civilization alike, with relatively intact natural landscapes.
To generate hospitable terrain, follow these steps:
• First, take 9 pieces of terrain:
o 2 Walls or Fences
o 2 Hills or Plantations
o 5 Forests or Large Buildings
• Then, take 4D3 more pieces of terrain, determining their
type by rolling 2D6 for each (see results below).
2 = Deep River or Lake
Counts as Impassable terrain.
3 = Shallow River or Stream
Counts as Difficult terrain. Optionally, you may add one 3”-6” wide
Bridge for every full 24” of Shallow River or Stream.
4 = Tall Crops Field
Counts as Difficult and Cover terrain.
5 = Ruins or Debris
Counts as Cover terrain, as well as Dangerous terrain when using
Rush/Charge actions.
6 = Forest or Plantation
Counts as Difficult and Cover terrain, and units may see into and
out of them, but not through.
7 = Hill, Forest, or Field
See other entries for specific rules.
8 = Hill
Counts as Cover terrain, and units on top may ignore one
unit/terrain for line of sight.
9 = Wall or Fence
Counts as Cover, as well as Difficult terrain when moving through it.
10 = One Large Building
Counts as Impassable and Blocking terrain.
11 = Group of Small Buildings
Count as Impassable and Blocking terrain.
12 = Steep Hill
Counts as Cover terrain, as well as Difficult terrain for units moving
up, and units on top may ignore one unit/terrain for line of sight.

ADVANCED TERRAIN - TERRAIN GENERATOR
WASTELAND PLANET
Either naturally barren or devastated by years of industry or war,
some planets are little more than wastes of dirt and ash.
To generate wasteland terrain, follow these steps:
• First, take 9 pieces of terrain:
o 2 Groups of Small Dunes
o 2 Large Rocks / Craters
o 5 Large Buildings / Toxic Smog
• Then, take 4D3 more pieces of terrain, determining their
type by rolling 2D6 for each (see results below).
2 = Toxic River
Counts as Difficult and Dangerous terrain. Optionally, you may add
one 3”-6” wide Bridge for every full 24” of Toxic River.
3 = Sludge Stream or Canal
Counts as Dangerous terrain. Optionally, you may add one 3”-6”
wide Bridge for every full 24” of Toxic River.
4 = Sludge Field
Counts as Difficult terrain.
5 = Ruins or Debris
Counts as Cover terrain, as well as Dangerous terrain when using
Rush/Charge actions.
6 = Large Rock or Two to Three Small Rocks
Counts as Impassable and Blocking terrain.
7 = Group of Small Dunes
Counts as Cover terrain, and units on top may ignore one
unit/terrain for line of sight.
8 = Crater
Counts as Cover terrain.
9 = Toxic Smog
Counts as Cover and Dangerous terrain, and units may see into and
out of it, but not through.
10 = Large Building
Counts as Impassable and Blocking terrain.
11 = Mine Field
Counts as Dangerous terrain.
12 = Group of Small Buildings
Count as Impassable and Blocking terrain.

DEATH PLANET
Some of the most dangerous planets in the universe, varying from
deadly jungles, to burning volcanoes, to icy mountains.
To generate death terrain, follow these steps:
• First, take 9 pieces of terrain:
o 2 Overgrown Ruins
o 2 Deadly Vegetation / Hills
o 5 Dense Vegetation / Steep Hills
• Then, take 4D3 more pieces of terrain, determining their
type by rolling 2D6 for each (see results below).
2 = Death Marsh
Counts as Difficult and Dangerous terrain.
3 = Crumbly Rock
Counts as Difficult terrain.
4 = Overgrown Ruins
Counts as Difficult and Cover terrain.
5 = Deadly Vegetation
Counts as Difficult, Cover, and Dangerous terrain.
6 = Dense Vegetation
Counts as Difficult and Cover terrain, and units may see into and
out of them, but not through.
7 = Dense Vegetation or Hill
See other entries for specific rules.
8 = Hill
Counts as Cover terrain, and units on top may ignore one
unit/terrain for line of sight.
9 = Group of Small Buildings
Count as Impassable and Blocking terrain.
10 = Steep Hill
Counts as Cover terrain, as well as Difficult terrain for units moving
up, and units on top may ignore one unit/terrain for line of sight.
11 = Beast Lair
Counts as Dangerous terrain.
12 = Quicksand
Counts as Dangerous terrain when using Rush/Charge actions.


ADVANCED TERRAIN - ARMY TERRAIN
USING ARMY TERRAIN
Players can choose to play using army terrain, which allows each
army to place a special piece of terrain that affects the game in
different interesting ways.
Before the game begins, each army either picks one army terrain,
or rolls to get one randomly.
To get army terrain randomly, first, roll one die to get one type of
Battle Terrain:
1. Army Banner
2. Battle Forge
3. Defensive Barrier
4. Icon of War
5. Protective Dome
6. Watch Tower
Then, roll one die to get one type of Relic Terrain:
1. Arcane Pillars
2. Enchanted Shrine
3. Faction Relic
4. Healing Well
5. Magic Armory
6. Twin Jumpgates
Finally, secretly pick one of the two results to be your army terrain
for the match.
Army terrain pieces should be somewhere between 2”x2” and 4”x4”
in size, and somewhere between 2” and 4” tall. Each piece counts
are impassable and blocking terrain.
During deployment, army terrain pieces are placed as if they were a
regular unit, but they can’t be placed within 6” of any objective
marker, or the table edges.
BATTLE TERRAIN
Army Banner
Whenever a friendly unit activates within 6” of this army terrain, it
gets +2” when using Advance actions, and +4” when using
Rush/Charge actions.
Battle Forge
Whenever a friendly unit activates within 6” of this army terrain, it
gets +1 to hit rolls when shooting.
Defensive Barrier
The area within 6” of this faction terrain counts as Difficult terrain
for enemy units.
Icon of War
Whenever a friendly unit activates within 12” of this army terrain, it
gets +1 to hit rolls in melee when charging.
Protective Dome
The area within 6” of this faction terrain counts as Cover terrain for
friendly units.
Watch Tower
The area within 6” of this faction terrain counts as Dangerous
terrain for enemy units.
RELIC TERRAIN
Arcane Pillars
When placing this army terrain, place two copies of it within 12” of
each other (instead of placing just one).
Draw a straight line from one copy of this army terrain to the other.
Whenever an enemy unit ends its activation with at least one model
touching the line, the unit takes 2D3 wounds.
Enchanted Shrine
Whenever a friendly Caster activates within 6” of this army terrain,
it gets 1 spell token.
Faction Relic
Whenever a friendly unit within 12” of this army terrain takes a
morale test, it gets +1 to its morale test roll.
Healing Well
Whenever a friendly unit within 6” of this army terrain is activated,
you may remove D3 wounds from it.
Magic Armory
Whenever a friendly unit within 6” of this army terrain takes hits, it
gets +1 to its defense rolls.
Twin Jumpgates
When placing this army terrain, place two copies of it within 24” of
each other (instead of placing just one).
Whenever a friendly unit ends its activation within 3” of one of the
copies of this army terrain, you may place it anywhere within 3” of
the other copy of this army terrain.

ADVANCED TERRAIN - SOLID BUILDINGS
OPEN VS SOLID BUILDINGS
To play with these rules, you first need to understand the
difference between open and solid buildings:
• Open buildings have one or more openings which can be
used to place models inside.
• Solid buildings consist of one solid block which cannot be
opened or reached into.
Usually, solid buildings would be treated as a piece of sight
blocking and impassable terrain, however with these rules your
units will be able to enter and defend them.
USING SOLID BUILDINGS
Solid buildings may hold up to X models inside of them, which must
be from the same army.
Units may enter by using any move action into contact with the
building, and units inside may exit by using any move action, but
must stay within 6” of it, however units may not both enter and exit
a building as part of the same activation.
Since buildings come in different sizes, you have to decide how
many models can be inside by yourself, however here are some
guidelines that you can use:
• Small Sheds: 6 models
• Medium Houses: 11 models
• Large Fortifications: 21 models
SOLID BUILDINGS & COMBAT
Units may shoot into and out of any side of a solid building that has
some sort of firing port (doors, windows, etc.), and you may choose
which firing port to shoot from.
Units inside of solid buildings always count as being in Cover,
regardless of what material the building is made of.
When charging units inside a building, only one unit inside of it is
targeted, and the defender may choose which. To charge the
building, simply move models in base contact with it.
BUILDING DESTRUCTION
Optionally, solid buildings may be targeted for all types of attacks
as if they were any other unit.
All buildings count as having Defense 2+ and a Tough(X) value,
which you are going to set yourself, however here are some
guidelines that you can use:
• Wood Buildings: Tough(6)
• Brick Buildings: Tough(12)
• Concrete Buildings: Tough(18)
If a unit is inside of a building when it is destroyed, then it must
take a Dangerous Terrain test, is immediately Shaken, and
surviving models must be placed within 6” of the building before it
is removed.
COLLATERAL DAMAGE
Optionally, solid buildings may also take collateral damage when
units inside of them are attacked.
Whenever a unit targets an enemy inside of a building with a
ranged attack, roll one die for every attack that misses. On a 4+ that
attack hits the building instead, which is resolved after all regular
hits have been resolved.
Note that failing to cast a spell targeting a unit inside of a building
does not count as a missed attack.